1.Solids have definite mass, volume and shape due to the fixed position of their
  constituent particles.
2.Amorphous and crystalline are two types of solids.
3.On the basis of interaction between constituent particles, crystalline solids are
  divided into four categories: ionic,molecular,metallic and covalent solids.
4.The three dimensional arrangement of constituents or points in a crystalline solid
  is called crystal lattice.
5.The smallest repeating pattern of the crystal lattice is known as unit cell.
  A unit cell is characterised by six parameters: edges a,b,c and angles alpha,
  beta and gama.
6.Number of lattice points or atoms in simple cubic unit cell is 1.
7.A tetrahedral void is formed when spheres are tetrahedrally arranged in space
  while octahedral void is formed by there octahedral arrangement. 
8.Coordination number is the number of neighbouring atoms for an atom in a crystal.
  Coordination number of trigonal planer equals to 3 , tetrahedral equals to 4 ,
  octahedral equals to 6 and body centered is 8.
9.Atomic radii is related to edge length as follows:
         r = a/2 (simple), r = (rt3/4)a (body centered), r = a/2rt2 (face centered).
10.Density(d) of a unit cell can be calculated by:
	      d = (Z x M)/(a^3 x N_a)
   Where, Z = No. of atoms per unit cell 
          M = atomic mass (or molecular mass)
          N_a = Avogadro constant
          a = edge length
11.Packing efficiency is the percentage of total space filled by the particals.
12.Packing efficiency for 
	(a) hcp and ccp structure = 74%
	(b) body centered = 68%
	(c) simple cubic lattice = 52.4%
13.Imperfections in solids are electronic or point deffects.
14.Semiconductors are of two types : n-type and p-type.
15.n-type semiconductors are formed by adding small amounts of elements of group 15
   to the pure elements of group 14 such as Si and Ge.
16.p-type semiconductors are formed by adding small amounts of elements of group 13
   to the pure elements of group 14.
17.Paramagnetic substances show magnetic behaviour only under the influence of the
   applied magnetic fields.
18.Ferromagnetic substances exhibit magnetism even when applied magnetic field is
   removed.
19.Antiferromagnetic substances have no magnetic moment since the electronic spins
   mutually cancel under the influence of external magnetic field.
20.Ferrimagnetic substances exhibit some magnetic character due to alignment of the
   electron spins in parallel and antiparallel directions in unequal numbers.